[KB-232] Reason for models and preprocessors (#172)
chhoumann/thesis-chemcam: report_thesis/src/sections/proposed_approach/model_selection.tex

Reviewer: Can you include this where you find it appropriate? Would like to read it in the context it's supposed to be in, in the PDF.

Reviewer: Will read & review when that's done

Reviewer: After reading this, I'm beginning to think it would be best for it to be the first (or close to) subsection in the proposed approach section.

\subsection{Model and Preprocessing Selection}
Having established the validation and testing procedures, as well as, the evaluation metrics in our experiments, this section will detail our approach to model and preprocessing selection.

Choosing the right models and preprocessing techniques for \gls{libs} data analysis is a challenging task. 

> As the literature highlighted in Section~\ref{sec:related-work} suggests, a variety of models and preprocessing techniques that promise to be adept at handling data that exhibits high-dimensionality, multi-collinearity, and matrix effects.

Reviewer: This other sentence doesn't make any sense grammatically
```suggestion
As the literature highlighted in Section~\ref{sec:related-work} suggests, a variety of models and preprocessing techniques promise to be adept at handling data that exhibit high-dimensionality, multi-collinearity, and matrix effects.
```

> Additionally, different machine learning models perform better on some oxides than others. 

Reviewer: Unclear where we have this claim from in the previous sentence, as additionally implies another, separate claim. But this sentence, as I understand it, builds on the lit. review.
```suggestion
The literature also indicates that different machine learning models perform better on some oxides than others.
```

> These challenges and model-specific strengths suggests that an optimal approach would involve combining multiple models. 

Reviewer: I _really_ like the flow of this section, until around this point. I think it's imperative that we provide strong rationale for why we believe this approach would work. Since we switch to focus on the strengths of stacking after this part, I don't believe we're quite at a strong rationale yet.
And here I'm referring to providing a strong rationale for our overall strategy, because you did quite well at doing so for the models we've selected.

See my proposal!

While this approach improved accuracy compared to individual models, it required manual tuning of the weights for each model.
This manual tuning presents limitations, including the analysis required to determine appropriate weights and the risk of suboptimal weighting.
Given these limitations, it is reasonable to explore techniques that can automate the weighting process while still leveraging the strengths of multiple models.
To address these criteria, we chose to adopt a stacking ensemble approach. 
Stacking, as described in Section~\ref{subsec:stacked-generalization}, is a method that utilizes multiple base estimators trained on the same data, whose predictions are then used to train a meta-learner.
By combining a diverse set of base models, stacking can correct for the biases of individual models.
Since each model focuses on different patterns within the data, stacking mitigates the inherent biases of individual models by estimating and correcting for these biases.

> This approach of leveraging the strength of multiple models that each model the problem differently can lead to better generalization on unseen data by automating and potentially improving upon manual tuning through the use of a meta-learner to discern patterns in the base predictors' outputs. \cite{wolpertstacked_1992} \cite{survey_of_ensemble_learning}

Author: I would say yes, but now I am questioning myself.

While these preprocessing techniques are not an exhaustive list, they represent a diverse set of methods.

> Techniques such as feature selection were not considered to limit the scope of the study and due to time constraints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Techniques such as feature selection were not considered, in order to limit the scope of the study and due to time constraints.
```

We also had several requirements for the selection of models.
The models selected for experimentation had to be diverse to ensure that we had enough breadth in our results to make informed decisions about which models should be included in the final stacking ensemble pipeline.
Additionally, the models had to be suitable for regression tasks and if no research was available in the context of \gls{libs} data, they had to be models that have shown promise in other domains.
Our literature review found that a variety of models fit this criteria.
For example, \citet{andersonPostlandingMajorElement2022} demonstrated that that models such as \gls{gbr}, \gls{pls}, \gls{lasso}, \gls{rf} were each effective at predicting different major oxides.
Additionaly, \citet{svrforlibs} demonstrated in their work that \gls{svr} outperforms \gls{plsr} in predicting \ce{Si}, \ce{Ca}, \ce{Mg}, \ce{Fe} and \ce{Al}.

> As a result, we have included \gls{gbr}, \gls{pls}, \gls{lasso}, \gls{rf}, and \gls{svr} in our experiments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As a result, we included \gls{gbr}, \gls{pls}, \gls{lasso}, \gls{rf}, and \gls{svr} in our experiments.
```

> In the neural network domain, \cite{ann_libs_soil_analysis} showed that on \gls{libs} data their 3-layer \gls{ann} relative error of prediction for \ce{Ca}, \ce{Fe}, \ce{Al} was below 20\%.
> Likewise, \citet{yangConvolutionalNeuralNetwork2022} showed that \gls{cnn} outperformed methods such as \gls{logreg}, \gls{svm} and linear discriminant analysis at correctly classifying twelve different types of rocks based on \gls{libs} data. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the neural network domain, \citet{ann_libs_soil_analysis} demonstrated that their 3-layer \gls{ann} achieved a relative prediction error below 20\% for \ce{Ca}, \ce{Fe}, and \ce{Al} using \gls{libs} data. 
Similarly, \citet{yangConvolutionalNeuralNetwork2022} showed that \gls{cnn} outperformed methods such as \gls{logreg}, \gls{svm}, and linear discriminant analysis in correctly classifying twelve different types of rocks based on \gls{libs} data.
```

While this example for \gls{cnn} is a classification task, \gls{cnn} can be adjusted for regression tasks by changing the loss function and output layer.
Based on these factors, we decided to include \gls{ann} and \gls{cnn} in our experiments to further increase the diversity of our model selection.

> To further bolster our selection pool, we chose to include models that were in the same family of models as those that showed promise in the literature.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To further bolster our selection pool, we included models from the same family as those that showed promise in the literature.
```

> \gls{xgboost} was included as an option based on its promising accuracy in various settings.

Reviewer 2: "as an option"? What do you mean?

Author: Option is a bad choice of words. I suggest this instead.
```suggestion
\gls{xgboost} was included in our experiments based on its promising accuracy in various settings.
```

> For example \citet{xgboost_in_biomedicie} showed that \gls{xgboost} outperformed models such as \gls{rf} and \gls{svm} in predicting biological activity based on quantitative description of the compound's molecular structure. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, \citet{xgboost_in_biomedicie} showed that \gls{xgboost} outperformed models such as \gls{rf} and \gls{svm} in predicting biological activity based on quantitative description of the compound's molecular structure. 
```

> For example \citet{xgboost_in_biomedicie} showed that \gls{xgboost} outperfomed models such as \gls{rf} and \gls{svm} in predicting biological activity based on quantitative description of the compound's molecular structure. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example \citet{xgboost_in_biomedicie} showed that \gls{xgboost} outperformed models such as \gls{rf} and \gls{svm} in predicting biological activity based on quantitative description of the compound's molecular structure. 
```

> Another example is \citet{xgboost_in_heart_disease} that used \gls{xgboost} to predict heart disease, where \gls{xgboost} outperformed \gls{rf} and \gls{etr} at correctly classifying patients with heart disease.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another example is \citet{xgboost_in_heart_disease}, who used \gls{xgboost} to predict heart disease and found that \gls{xgboost} outperformed \gls{rf} and \gls{etr} in correctly classifying patients with heart disease.
```

> Because of these factors and that \gls{xgboost} has not been widely studied in the context of \gls{libs} data, we decided to include it in our experiments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to these factors and the limited study of \gls{xgboost} in the context of \gls{libs} data, we decided to include it in our experiments.
```

> Because of these factors and that \gls{xgboost} has not been widely studied in the context of \gls{libs} data, we decided to include it in our experiments.

Reviewer: Not sure that I love using the heart disease cite, as 1. it's not related to libs, 2. it's classification.

And the biomed cite is questionable in this context as well. Perhaps go for just saying that XGB does GBR but has some nice features like regularization, which is the reason behind us using it?

Author: Yea I struggled with this argument as well. My reasoning was that xgboost clearly performed well over other models in different contexts and so maybe it would also perform well in the libs context.

Perhaps these cites still work if I emphasize this point more?

Following the same logic, we included \gls{ngboost}. 

> \gls{ngboost} is a recent model introduced by \citet{duan_ngboost_2020} that according to their work improves upon \gls{gbr} by using a more sophisticated loss function and a more advanced gradient boosting algorithm.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
\gls{ngboost} is a recent model introduced by \citet{duan_ngboost_2020} that, according to their work, improves upon \gls{gbr} by using a more sophisticated loss function and a more advanced gradient boosting algorithm.
```

> A very limited amount of research has been conducted using this algorithm in the context of \gls{libs} data, however, \citet{ngboost_landslide} showed that \gls{ngboost} outperformed \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} and correctly determining landslide-prone fields with an AUC of 0.898 compared to an AUC of 0.871 and 0.863 of \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Limited research has been conducted using this algorithm in the context of \gls{libs} data. 
However, \citet{ngboost_landslide} showed that \gls{ngboost} outperformed \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} in correctly determining landslide-prone fields, with an AUC of 0.898 compared to 0.871 and 0.863 for \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf}, respectively.
```

> A very limited amount of research has been conducted using this algorithm in the context of \gls{libs} data, however, \citet{ngboost_landslide} showed that \gls{ngboost} outperformed \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} and correctly determining landslide-prone fields with an AUC of 0.898 compared to an AUC of 0.871 and 0.863 of \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} respectively.

Reviewer: Need glossary for AUC? Area Under Curve? + then it's classification I think, so not great either. Not sure we need these cites to say that we're exploring these models. That's a good enough reason in itself (exploration).

Author: So exclude the numbers and just say it performed better than the other models?

Reviewer: My point was actually more about it not being necessary to justify like that. Since we've already clarified some models were included for explorative reasons, it's fine to say this is one of them.

> Finally, \gls{ridge}, \gls{enet}, \gls{etr} and \gls{lasso} were used in various studies and showed promising results, despite not necessarily being best performing in their respective studies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, \gls{ridge}, \gls{enet}, \gls{etr}, and \gls{lasso} were included in various studies and showed promising results, even if they were not the top performers in their respective studies.
```

> Finally, \gls{enet}, \gls{ridge} and \gls{etr} were included, not necessarily for their performance in the literature, but to further diversy the set of models in our experiments.

Reviewer: Yeah, sure, but I'd prefer if you said (about LASSO, Ridge, and ETR) that they _were_ used in the literature

Reviewer: And ETR is RF family, so can just say that

Author: ```suggestion
Finally, \gls{ridge}, \gls{enet}, \gls{etr} and \gls{lasso} were used in various studies and showed promising results, despite not necessarily being best performing in their respective studies.
Therefore, we chose to include these in our experiments to further diversify our model selection. 
```

Does this work for you?

Table~\ref{tab:preprocessing-models} summarizes the preprocessing techniques and models selected for our experimentation.

\begin{table}[ht]
\centering
\begin{tabularx}{\columnwidth}{>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}X}
\toprule
\textbf{Normalization / Scaling:} \\
\midrule
Z-Score Normalization \\
Min-Max Normalization \\
Max Absolute Scaling \\
Robust Scaling \\
Norm 3 \\
\midrule
\textbf{Transformation Methods:} \\
\midrule
Power Transformation \\
Quantile Transformation \\
\midrule
\textbf{Dimensionality Reduction Methods:} \\
\midrule
PCA \\

> Kernel PCA \\

Reviewer 2: Why is PCA the only one listed using its acronym?

Another example is \citet{xgboost_in_heart_disease}, who used \gls{xgboost} to predict heart disease and found that \gls{xgboost} outperformed \gls{rf} and \gls{etr} in correctly classifying patients with heart disease.
Due to these factors and the limited study of \gls{xgboost} in the context of \gls{libs} data, we decided to include it in our experiments.

Following the same logic, we included \gls{ngboost}. 
\gls{ngboost} is a recent model introduced by \citet{duan_ngboost_2020} that, according to their work, improves upon \gls{gbr} by using a more sophisticated loss function and a more advanced gradient boosting algorithm.
Limited research has been conducted using this algorithm in the context of \gls{libs} data. 
However, \citet{ngboost_landslide} showed that \gls{ngboost} outperformed \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf} in correctly determining landslide-prone fields, with an AUC of 0.898 compared to 0.871 and 0.863 for \gls{xgboost} and \gls{rf}, respectively.

> Finally, \gls{ridge}, \gls{enet}, \gls{etr}, and \gls{lasso} were included in various studies and showed promising results, even if they were not the top performers in their respective studies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, ridge regression, \gls{enet}, \gls{etr}, and \gls{lasso} were included in various studies and showed promising results, even if they were not the top performers in their respective studies.
```

Therefore, we chose to include these in our experiments to further diversify our model selection. 

Table~\ref{tab:preprocessing-models} summarizes the preprocessing techniques and models selected for our experimentation.

\begin{table}[ht]
\centering
\begin{tabularx}{\columnwidth}{>{\raggedright\arraybackslash}X}
\toprule
\textbf{Normalization / Scaling:} \\
\midrule
Z-Score Normalization \\
Min-Max Normalization \\
Max Absolute Scaling \\
Robust Scaling \\
Norm 3 \\
\midrule
\textbf{Transformation Methods:} \\
\midrule
Power Transformation \\
Quantile Transformation \\
\midrule
\textbf{Dimensionality Reduction Methods:} \\
\midrule

> PCA \\

Author: ```suggestion
\gls{pca} \\
```

> PCA \\

Author: ```suggestion
Principal Components Analysis \\
```

> Kernel PCA \\

Author: ```suggestion
\gls{kernel-pca} \\
```

Reviewer 2: This *still* renders it as an acronym, while all the others aren't. 
My point is that all the other listed methods and techniques are not listed using their acronyms, only PCA is. This is inconsistent.
